Data Preparation documentation for AI chat [PAB-5234] (#4754)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/data-preparation/rule-editor-bundle/ai-chat.md

| *"I have a Modbus device sending binary data. Here is the decode function..."* | Provides the codec so the AI can integrate it directly. |
| *"Convert this climate sensor JSON to a measurement. Filter out readings where temperature is below 15°C or above 35°C."* | Includes validation requirements. |

#### Prompts to avoid {#prompts-to-avoid}

- Vague requests without sample data or context (for example, *"Write me some code"*).
- Prompts that assume the AI knows your specific device without providing its data format.
- Requests to use features not supported by the smart function API — the AI informs you if something is not possible.

### Using suggestions {#using-suggestions}

After each response, the AI offers clickable **suggested next requests** that guide you toward common next steps. These suggestions are contextual — they change based on the current state of your code and conversation.

Typical suggestions include:

- Adding error handling for missing or null fields.
- Adding an alarm for threshold conditions.
- Adding a test for edge cases.

> - Generating test cases for the current code.

Reviewer: subjective but Im not sure a list of typical suggestions adds much value

> Click any suggestion to send it as your next message. You can also ignore suggestions and type your own request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click any suggestion to send it as your next message. You can also type your own request instead.
```
Something like this?
